Socket Programming Project
Available Sunday 02/15/2026; Milestone due Sunday 03/08/2026; Full project due Sunday 03/29/2026
The purpose of this project is to implement your own application program in which processes communicate using
sockets to first build a distributed hash table (DHT) and then process queries using it.
• You may write your code in C/C++, in Java, or in Python; no other programming languages are permitted.
Each of these languages has a socket programming library that you must use for communication.
• This project may be completed individually or in a group of size at most two. Whatever your choice, you must
join a Socket Project Group under the People tab on Canvas before the milestone deadline of Sunday,
03/08/2026. This group can be the same as or different from the group used in Lab 1.
• Each group must restrict its use of port numbers to prevent the possibility of application programs from inter-
fering with each other. As described in §3, port numbers are dependent on you group number.
• You must use a version control system as you develop your solution to this project, e.g., GitHub or similar.
Your code repository must be private to prevent anyone from plagiarizing your work. It is expected that you
will create this repository by 02/22/2026 and commit changes to it on a regular basis.
1 DHT: A Distributed Hash Table with Hot Potato Query Processing
In a distributed hash table (DHT), the contents of a hash table are distributed across a number of hosts in a network
rather than storing the entire table at a single host. In this project, a ring topology will be used for management of the
DHT, while query processing will be done using a hot potato style of protocol. If you are interested, you can learn
about more complex topologies used in real DHT implementations such Chord [2], Kademlia [1], and Tapestry [3].
The architecture of the DHT application is illustrated in Figure 1. It shows a DHT manager maintaining state
information about the system. In this example, five peers are organized in a logical ring topology. Together they
implement the DHT with each storing a subset of the records of the DHT in a local hash table. All management of the
Javier
id= 0
Sarah
id=1
find-event, id-seq = 2, 4
State information
Matthew
id=4
DHT Manager
register …
register …
find-event, id-seq = 2, 4, 1
find-event, id-seq = 2
query-dht …
Logical ring
Hot potatoes
Query/response
Interaction with manager
Local hash table
For ring management,
e.g., DHT creation, and
managing peer churn
find-event response
find-event request
Ali
Prateek
id=2
Guoliang
id= 3
Figure 1: Architecture of the DHT application.
1
DHT is performed using the ring, including creation of the DHT, and handling churn of peers managing it. One peer is
shown querying the DHT. A query may result in messages among peers in the DHT using a hot potato style of protocol
to respond to the query. To simplify the application, any request to query the DHT while it is under construction or
modification is denied.
This socket programming project involves the design and implementation of two programs:
1. The first program implements an “always-on” manager to support management of the peers implementing the
DHT, among other functionality. Your manager should read one command line parameter, an integer giving the
port number at which the server listens. The messages to be supported by the manager are described in §1.1.
2. The second program implements the peer protocol that supports both construction and management of the DHT,
as well as the ability to query the DHT. Your peer should read two command line parameters, the first a string
giving the IPv4 address of the manager in dotted decimal, and the second an integer port number at which the
manager is listening. The messages to be supported by peers interacting with the manager are described in §1.1.
Messages to be support by peers interacting with each other are described in §1.2.
1.1 The DHT Manager Protocol
The manager process is started on a host with a provided port number. Once started it runs in an infinite loop,
listening to the given port for messages incoming from peers. As peers send messages, the manager maintains state of
the DHT application, including the state of the peers. Peers that register with the manager may be in one of 3 states:
1. Free, a peer able to participate in any capacity,
2. Leader, a peer that leads the construction of the DHT, and
3. InDHT, a peer that is one of the members of the DHT.
Peers may transition between states as commands are processed.
All commands are read from stdin – no fancy UI is expected! A peer reads in a command and constructs a
message to be sent to the manager or to another peer over a UDP socket. Messages to the manager always come in
pairs; i.e., after sending a message to the manager, the peer waits for a response before issuing its next command.
In the following, <> bracket parameters to a command, while the other strings are literals. The manager must
support messages corresponding to the following commands from a peer:
1. register ⟨peer-name⟩ ⟨IPv4-address⟩ ⟨m-port⟩ ⟨p-port⟩, where peer-name is an alpha-
betic string of length at most 15 characters. This command registers a peer with the manager. All peers must be
registered prior to issuing other any other commands to the manager.
On receipt of a command to register, the manager stores the name, IPv4 address, and two ports associated
with that peer in a state information base. The m-port is strictly for communication between the peer and
manager, while the p-port is for communication between peers. The state of the peer is set to Free.
If the parameters are unique, the manager responds with a return code of SUCCESS. Specifically, each peer-name
may only be registered once. The IPv4-address of a peer need not be unique, i.e., one or more processes
may run on the same end host. However, the ports used for communication by each process must be unique.
The manager takes no action and responds to the peer with a return code of FAILURE in the case of a duplicate
registration, or some other problem.
2. setup-dht ⟨peer-name⟩ ⟨n⟩ ⟨YYYY⟩, where n ≥3 . This command initiates the construction of a DHT
of size n using data from year YYYY, with peer-name as its leader. In this project, only one DHT may exist
at any time.
This command results in a return code of FAILURE if:
• The peer-name is not registered.
• n is not at least three.
• Fewer than n users are registered with the manager.
• A DHT has already been set up.
2
Otherwise, the manager sets the state of peer-name to Leader, and selects at random n−1 Free users from
those registered updating each one’s state to InDHT. The manager returns a return code of SUCCESS and a list
of n peers that together will construct the DHT. The n peers are given by 3-tuples consisting of the peer-name,
IPv4-address, and p-port, with the 3-tuple of the leader given first (the other tuples can follow in any
order). Receipt of SUCCESS at the leader involves several additional steps to accomplish the setup of the DHT,
as described in §1.2.1.
After responding with SUCCESS to a setup-dht, the manager waits for dht-complete, returning FAILURE
to any other incoming messages.
3. dht-complete ⟨peer-name⟩. Receipt of a dht-complete indicates that the leader has completed all
the steps required to set up the DHT. If the peer-name is not the leader of the DHT then this command returns
FAILURE Otherwise, the manager responds to the leader with SUCCESS. The manager may now process any
other command (except setup-dht).
4. query-dht ⟨peer-name⟩. This command is used to initiate a query of the DHT. It returns FAILURE if the
DHT set up has not been completed, the peer is not registered, or the peer is registered but not Free. Otherwise,
the manager chooses at random one of the n peers maintaining the DHT and responds with a 3-tuple consisting
of its peer-name, IPv4-address, and p-port. The return code is also set to SUCCESS. Receipt of
SUCCESS to the peer making the query-dht involves several additional steps; see §1.2.2.
5. leave-dht ⟨peer-name⟩. A DHT is maintained by a set of processes that is dynamic. The leave-dht
initiates the process of peer-name leaving the DHT. This command returns FAILURE if the peer is not one
maintaining the DHT, or the DHT does not exist. Otherwise, the manager responds with SUCCESS and stores
the peer-name making the request. The server waits for dht-rebuilt, returning FAILURE to any other
incoming messages. Receipt of SUCCESS at the peer involves several steps to rebuild the DHT; see §1.2.3.
6. join-dht ⟨peer-name⟩. This command initiates the process of peer-name joining the DHT. This com-
mand returns FAILURE if the peer is not Free, or the DHT does not exist. Otherwise, the manager responds
with SUCCESS and stores the peer-name making the request. The server waits for dht-rebuilt, returning
FAILURE to any other incoming messages. Receipt of SUCCESS at the peer involves several steps to rebuild
the DHT; see §1.2.4.
7. dht-rebuilt ⟨peer-name⟩ ⟨new-leader⟩, where new-leader is the name of the leader of the re-
built DHT. Receipt of dht-rebuilt indicates that all the steps of managing the peer churn have been com-
pleted. If the peer-name is not the same as that initiating the leave-dht, or join-dht, then return
FAILURE. Otherwise, the manager responds to the peer with SUCCESS and sets the state of peer-name, as
appropriate. Rebuilding the DHT may require the assignment of a new leader; set states accordingly.
8. deregister ⟨peer-name⟩. This command removes the state of a Free peer from the state information
base, allowing it to terminate. This command returns FAILURE if the peer state is InDHT. Otherwise, the
peer’s state information is removed, and the manager responds with SUCCESS. The user process then exits the
application, i.e., it terminates.
9. teardown-dht ⟨peer-name⟩, where peer-name is the leader of the DHT. This command initiates the
deletion of the DHT. This command returns FAILURE if the peer is not the leader of the DHT. Otherwise, the
manager responds with SUCCESS. Receipt of SUCCESS at the peer involves several steps to delete the DHT; see
§1.2.5. The manager waits for teardown-complete, returning FAILURE to any other incoming messages.
10. teardown-complete ⟨peer-name⟩, where peer-name is the leader of the DHT. This command indi-
cates that the DHT has been deleted. The manager returns FAILURE if the peer is not the leader of the DHT.
Otherwise, the manager changes the state of each peer involved in maintaining the DHT to Free, and responds
to the with SUCCESS.
3
1.2 The DHT Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Protocol
1.2.1 Creation of the DHT, setup-dht
The creation of a DHT is initiated by a setup-dht command sent by a peer to the manager, to create a DHT
maintained by n peers in total. On receipt of SUCCESS, n 3-tuples consisting of peer name, IPv4 address, and peer
port number are also included; see Table 1. The first 3-tuple is that of the process that sent the setup-dht command.
This process serves as the leader of the DHT, assigning itself an identifier of zero. In the example in Figure 1, Javier
is the leader.
Table 1: The n 3-tuples returned in a successful setup-dht command.
peer0 IP-addr0 p-port0 ←this is the leader’s tuple
peer1 IP-addr1 p-port1
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
peern−1 IP-addrn−1 p-portn−1
The leader then follows these steps to set up the DHT:
1. Assign identifiers and neighbours. First, a logical ring among the n processes must be set up. The processes
will be assigned identifiers 0, 1, . . . , n−1. The leader has identifier 0. For i = 1, . . . , n−1:
(a) The leader sends a command set-id to peeri at IP-addri, p-porti. It also sends identifier i, the
ring size n, and the 3-tuples from Table 1.
(b) On receipt of a set-id, peeri sets its identifier to i and the ring size to n. It stores the 3-tuple of
peer(i+1) mod n to use as the address of its right neighbour, i.e., the next process on the cycle.
After the assignment of identifiers, all management messages must always travel around the logical ring in one
direction, from the process with identifier 0 →1 →2 →. . . →n−1 and back to 0.
2. Construct the local DHTs. Now, the leader populates the DHT with data. The dataset is storm data provided by
the U.S. National Weather Service (NWS). It contains a listing by state of weather phenomena. Data is available
from 1950 to the present.
For each year YYYY, 1950 ≤YYYY ≤2019, the input file is named details-YYYY.csv, and is a comma
separated value (CSV) file containing the storm event data. Each line of the file details-YYYY.csv contains
details of a storm event described by the following 14 fields, in order. An exception is the first line of the file
which contains the field names and should be skipped.
(a) event id: An identifier assigned by the NWS for a specific storm event. Example: 383097.
(b) state: The state name, spelled in all capital letters, where the event occurred. Example: GEORGIA.
(c) year: The four digit year for the event in this record. Example: 2000.
(d) month name: Name of the month for the event in this record spelled out. Example: January.
(e) event type: The event types permitted are listed in Table 2, spelled out.
(f) cz type: Indicates whether the event happened in a county/parish (C), zone (Z), or marine (M).
(g) cz name: County/Parish, Zone or Marine name assigned to the county or zone. Example: AIKEN.
(h) injuries direct: The number of injuries directly related to the weather event. Examples: 0, 56.
(i) injuries indirect: The number of injuries indirectly related to the weather event. Examples: 0, 87.
(j) deaths direct: The number of deaths directly related to the weather event. Examples: 0, 23.
(k) deaths indirect: The number of deaths indirectly related to the weather event. Examples: 0, 4, 6.
(l) damage property: The estimated amount of damage to property incurred by the weather event. Ex-
amples: 10.00K, 0.00K, 10.00M.
(m) damage crops: The estimated amount of damage to crops incurred by the weather event.
(n) tor f scale: Enhanced Fujita Scale describes the strength of the tornado based on the amount and type
of damage caused by the tornado. Examples: EF0, EF1, EF2, EF3, EF4, EF5.
4
Table 2: Valid Event Types
Event Name Designator Event Name Designator
Astronomical Low Tide Avalanche Blizzard Coastal Flood Cold/Wind Chill Debris Flow Dense Fog Dense Smoke Drought Dust Devil Dust Storm Excessive Heat Extreme Cold/Wind Chill Flash Flood Flood Frost/Freeze Funnel Cloud Freezing Fog Hail Heat Heavy Rain Heavy Snow High Surf High Wind Z Hurricane (Typhoon) Z
Z Ice Storm Z
Z Lake-Effect Snow Z
Z Lakeshore Flood Z
Z Lightning C
C Marine Hail M
Z Marine High Wind M
Z Marine Strong Wind M
Z Marine Thunderstorm Wind M
C Rip Current Z
Z Seiche Z
Z Sleet Z
Z Storm Surge/Tide Z
C Strong Wind Z
C Thunderstorm Wind C
Z Tornado C
C Tropical Depression Z
Z Tropical Storm Z
C Tsunami Z
Z Volcanic Ash Z
C Waterspout M
Z Wildfire Z
Z Winter Storm Z
Z Winter Weather Z
Compute the number of storm events, ℓ, in the details-YYYY.csv file, i.e., , this is one less than the number
of lines in the file. For i = 1, . . . , ℓ, the leader:
(a) Reads storm event i from the dataset into a record. Each record will be stored in one local hash table.
(b) Determines the identifier of the peer that will store the record. To do so, it computes two hash functions.
The first hash function computes a position, pos, as the event id field modulo the hash table size. The
hash table size, s, is the first prime number larger than 2 ×ℓ. The second hash function is the position
modulo the ring size n.
pos= event id mod s
id= pos mod n
Here, 0 ≤id ≤n−1, is the identifier of the node in the ring that is to store the record, whereas pos
gives the position in the local hash table of node id at which to store the record.
If the id is identifier of the current node, then it stores the record in its local hash table. Otherwise, the
leader sends a store command to its right neighbour on the ring, along with the record. The record is
forwarded along the ring from the leader to node whose identifier equals id, where it is stored in the local
hash table. In a correct implementation, a store command does not return to the leader.
Do not have the leader send the store command directly to the node id. In DHTs the topology of the
DHT, here a ring, must be used for management functions.
3. Print configuration and signal completion of DHT set up. The leader outputs the number of records stored
at each node in the ring, and sends a message for the dht-complete command to the manager.
5
1.2.2 Querying the DHT, query-dht
In response to a successful query-dht command, the manager, it returns a 3-tuple peer-name, IP-v4-address,
and p-port of any the one of the processes involved in maintaining the DHT. That is, the query process of the sending
peer S can start at any node in the ring.
The sending peer S issues a find-event <event id> query to peer-name to search the DHT for the storm
event with identifier event id. The find-event query should include the 3-tuple of S.
1. On receipt of the find-event at peer-name, it computes pos and id as described in §1.2.1.
2. If the id equals the identifier of peer-name, it examines position pos in its local hash table to see if it holds
the record with the given event id. If so, it returns SUCCESS, including the entire record associated with
event id, and id-seq equal to id.
3. If the id does not equal the identifier of peer-name, then the find-event message is forwarded using a
hot potato protocol. In a hot potato protocol, the identifier of the node whose local hash table is searched next is
selected at random.
(a) Let I = {0, 1, . . . , n−1}\id. That is, I is the set of all identifiers from zero to n−1 except id.
(b) Initialize id-seq to id. The id-seq records the order that nodes in the ring are visited.
(c) Let let next = random(I). The find-event message is sent to next, updating the set I = I \next,
and appending next to id-seq. Node next examines position pos in its local hash table for the event.
4. The message is forwarded until either the search is successful or it is not. If the event with the given event id
is found, a return code of SUCCESS is sent to S, including the associated record, and id-seq. The fields of the
storm event, with each field labelled, should be output on a separate line at S. In addition, the id-seq giving
the sequence of nodes probed to find the record should also be output.
If the event with the given event id is not found, a return code of FAILURE is sent to S, which subsequently
prints: "Storm event <event id> not found in the DHT."
1.2.3 Leaving the DHT, leave-dht
DHTs are maintained by a dynamic set of processes so existing implementations of DHTs allow new nodes to join or
leave the maintenance of the DHT. Suppose that a leave-dht command is issued to the manager by peer u with
identifier i. This requires the DHT to be rebuilt with n−1 nodes. One way to accomplish this is as follows:
1. Peer u initiates a teardown of the DHT (see step 1 in §1.2.5). When the teardown propagates back to u, it
deletes its own local hash table.
2. A renumbering of ring identifiers is initiated by u. A reset-id command is sent to its right neighbour setting
its identifier to zero, and the ring size to n−1. Peer u is removed from the set of tuples. The reset-id should
be propagated around the ring, incrementing the node identifier and resetting the ring size as it goes.
When a reset-id is received by u, it knows the identifiers of the nodes in the ring have been renumbered,
with its right neighbour becoming the leader of the new smaller ring of size n−1.
3. Peer u sends a command rebuild-dht to its right neighbour, i.e., the new leader of the smaller ring. Upon
receipt of the rebuild-dht, the new leader follows step 2 of §1.2.1 to construct the local DHTs in the new
ring of size n−1, signalling u on completion.
4. Peer u sends a message for the dht-rebuilt command to the manager specifying its right neighbour as the
new-leader.
1.2.4 Joining the DHT, join-dht
Design the protocol for a peer to join the DHT. The last step must include the peer sending a message for the
dht-rebuilt command to the manager specifying the new-leader.
6
1.2.5 Deletion of the DHT, teardown-dht
The command tearddown-dht deletes the DHT. This is accomplished by the following steps:
1. The leader send a teardown command to its right neighbour. This causes each node to delete its local hash
table as the teardown propagates around the ring.
2. On receipt of the teardown at the leader, it deletes its local hash table and then sends a message for the
teardown-complete command to the server.
Be sure to make the implementation of teardown generic so that it can be used as part of the processing for the
leave-dht command; see step 1 of §1.2.3.
2 Implementation Suggestions
2.1 Managing Sockets
For the n 3-tuples returned by the setup-dht, you should establish an array of sockets indexed by node id on the
ring. Then node i’s right neighbour on the ring is found by writing to the socket at position i + 1 mod n.
You may consider using a different thread for handling socket associated with the m-port and p-port of each
process. Alternatively a single thread may loop, checking each socket one at a time to see if a message has arrived
for the process to handle. If you use a single thread, you must be aware that by default the function recvfrom()
in C++ is blocking. This means that when a process issues a recvfrom() that cannot be completed immediately
(because there is no packet), the process is put to sleep waiting for a packet to arrive at the socket. Therefore, a call to
recvfrom() will return immediately only if a packet is available on the socket. This may not be what you want.
You can change recvfrom() to be non-blocking, i.e., it will return immediately even if there is no packet. This
can be done in C++ by setting the flags argument of recvfrom() or by using the function fcntl(). See the
man pages for recvfrom() and fcntl() for details.
2.2 Defining Message Exchanges and Message Format
Sections §1.1 and §1.2 have described the order of many message exchanges, as well as the actions taken on the
transmission and/or receipt of a message. As part of this project, you may need to add details for the setup-dht,
query-dht, leave-dht, join-dht, and the teardown-dht commands.
In addition, you need to define the format of all messages used in peer-manager and in peer-to-peer communication.
This could be achieved by defining a structure with all the fields required by the command. For example, you could
define the name of the command as an integer field and interpret it accordingly. Alternatively, a message can be a
string, with concatenated fields separated by a delimiter. Indeed, any choice is fine so long as you are able to extract
the fields of a message and interpret them.
You may want to define an upper bound on the size a local hash table as the first prime number larger than 2×ℓ (see
§1.2.1), and reasonable upper bounds on the total number of registered peers that your application supports, among
others. It may also useful to define meaningful return codes to further differentiate SUCCESS and FAILURE.
3 Port Numbers
RFC 1700 contains the list of port number assignments from the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA). The
port numbers are divided into three ranges:
• Well-known ports: 0 through 1023. These port numbers are controlled and assigned by IANA.
• Registered ports: 1024 through 49151. The upper limit of 49151 for these ports is new; RFC 1700 lists the
upper range as 65535. These port numbers are not controlled by the IANA.
• Dynamic or private ports: 49152 through 65535. The IANA dictates nothing about these ports. These are the
ephemeral ports.
7
In this project, each group G ≥1 is assigned a set of 500 unique port numbers to use in the following range. If
G mod 2 = 0, i.e., your group number is even, then use the range: G
2 ×1000 + 1000,
G
2 ×1000 + 1499. If
G mod 2 = 1, i.e., your group number is odd, then use the range: G
2 ×1000 + 500,
G
2 ×1000 + 999.
That is, group 1 has range [1500, 1999], group 2 has range [2000, 2499], group 3 has range [2500, 2999], and so on.
Do not use port numbers outside your assigned range, as otherwise you may send messages to another group’s
process by accident and it is unlikely it will be able to interpret it correctly, causing spurious crashes.
4 Submission Requirements for the Milestone and Full Project Deadlines
Submit electronically before 11:59pm on the deadline date a zip file named Socket your group number. Do not use any other archiving program except zip.
Project X.zip where X is
1. The milestone is due on Sunday, 03/08/2026. See §4.1 for requirements.
2. The full project is due on Sunday, 03/29/2026. See §4.2 for requirements.
It is your responsibility to submit your project well before the time deadline!!! Late projects are not accepted.
Do not expect the clock on your machine to be synchronized with the one on Canvas!
An unlimited number of submissions are allowed. The last submission will be graded.
4.1 Submission Requirements for the Milestone
For the milestone deadline, you are to implement the following commands to the manager: register, setup-dht,
and dht-complete. This also involves implementation of commands that may be issued among peers associated
with these commands; see, e.g., §1.2.1.
For the milestone, your zip file must contain:
1. Design document in PDF format (50%). Describe the design of your DHT application program.
(a) Include a description of your message format for each command implemented for the milestone.
(b) Include a time-space diagram for each command implemented to illustrate the order of messages ex-
changed between communicating entities, as well as the actions taken on the transmission and/or receipt
of a message or other event. Use a software tool of your choice, e.g., PowerPoint, to draw these diagrams.
(c) Describe your choice of data structures used, implementation considerations, and other design decisions.
(d) Include a snapshot showing commits made in your choice of version control system.
(e) Provide a a link to your video demo and ensure that the link is accessible to our graders. In addition, give
a list of timestamps in your video at which each step 3(a)-3(d) is demonstrated.
2. Code and documentation (25%). Submit your well-documented source code implementing the milestone of
your DHT application.
3. Video demo (25%). Upload a video of length at most 7 minutes to YouTube with no splicing or edits, with audio
accompaniment. This video must be uploaded and timestamped before the milestone submission deadline.
The video demo of your DHT application for the milestone must include:
(a) Compile your manager and peer programs (if applicable).
(b) Run the freshly compiled programs on at least two distinct end-hosts.
(c) Start your manager program. Then start three peer processes that each register with the manager.
(d) Have one peer issue a setup-dht command to build a DHT of size n = 3 using the YYYY = 1950
dataset. This should output the number of records stored at each peer in the ring and finish by sending a
dht-complete to the manager.
8
Graceful termination of your application is not required at this time.
For the end-hosts, consider using general{3|4|5}.asu.edu, the machines on the racks in BYENG 217, or
installing your application on VMs on a LAN you configure in CloudLab, or using any other end-hosts available
to you for the demo.
Your video will require at least four (4) windows open: one for the manager, and one for each peer. Ensure
that the font size in each window is large enough to read!
Be sure that the output of your commands are a well-labelled trace of the messages transmitted and
received between processes so that it is easy to follow what is happening in your DHT application program.
4.2 Submission Requirements for the Full Project
For the full project deadline, you are to implement the all commands to the manager listed in §1.1. This also involves
implementation of all commands issued between peers that are associated with these commands as described in §1.2.
For the full project submission, your zip file must contain:
1. Design document in PDF format (30%). Extend the design document for the milestone of your DHT applica-
tion to include details for the remaining commands implemented for the full project. Provide all items listed in
step 1 of §4.1, except that the list of timestamps in the video must be for each step 3(a)-3(i) listed below.
2. Code and documentation (20%). Submit well-documented source code implementing your DHT application.
3. Video demo (50%). Upload a video of target length at most 15 minutes to YouTube with no splicing or edits,
with audio accompaniment. This video must be uploaded and timestamped before the full project deadline.
The video demo of your DHT application for the full project must include:
(a) Compile your manager and peer programs (if applicable).
(b) Run the freshly compiled programs on at least four distinct end-hosts.
(c) Start your manager program. Then start six peer processes that each register with the manager.
(d) Select one peer to issue a setup-dht command to build a DHT of size n = 5 and YYYY = 1996.
(e) Have the remaining peer issue a sequence of query-dht commands, with event id taken from the
set {5536849, 2402920, 5539287, 55770111}.
(f) Select one peer in the DHT issue a leave-dht command. Then issue at least one query by the peer
that left the DHT (with any event id).
(g) Select one peer of the two outside the DHT to issue a join-dht command. Then issue at least one
query by the remaining peer (with any event id).
(h) Have the leader of the DHT issue a teardown-dht.
(i) Gracefully terminate of your application, i.e., de-register all peers and have them exit. Of course, the
manager process needs to be terminated explicitly.
Ensure that the font size in each window you open is large enough to read!
As before, the output of your commands must be a well-labelled trace the messages transmitted and
received between processes so that it is easy to follow what is happening in your DHT application program.
References
[1] Petar Maymounkov and David Mazi` eres. Kademlia: A peer-to-peer information system based on the XOR metric. In Interna-
tional Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems (IPTPS’02), LNCS Volume 2429, pages 53–62, 2002.
[2] Ion Stoica, Robert Morris, David Liben-Nowell, David R. Karger, M. Frans Kaashoek, Frank Dabek, and Hari Balakrishnan.
Chord: A scalable peer-to-peer lookup protocol for Internet applications. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking (TON),
11(1):17–32, 2003.
[3] Ben Y. Zhao, Ling Huang, Jeremy Stribling, Sean C. Rhea, Anthony D. Joseph, and John D. Kubiatowicz. Tapestry: A resilient
global-scale overlay for service deployment. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications (JSAC), 22(1):41–53, 2004.
9